So it's the end of the week.
Your brains are probably filled with lots
of ideas about how you might use some of
the new APIs that have been discussed.
A lot of the new technology
that's been demoed.
And what I'd like to do today
is talk about the tool that
hopefully you'll be using,
one of the tools anyway,
that hopefully you'll be using to
implement some of your new ideas.
Interface Builder.
Since this is announced as
sort of an advanced session,
I'm assuming you're comfortable
with Interface Builder.
What I want to do though is focus
on part of Interface Builder
that I think up until recently
has been fairly underutilized.
Until recently,
because if you went to the Quartz
Composer session today or the
QT Kit session the other day,
you saw some great Interface Builder
palettes that have been created.
Also, if you look in
/developer/extras/palettes on your DVD,
you'll see a number of new palettes
that have been created by teams
outside of the Interface Builder team.
What that means is basically,
well to some extent I didn't
know that these other teams
were working on these palettes,
but more importantly it means that
these other teams did this without the
help of the Interface Builder team.
In particular,
they'll be using basically the
same process that we're going
to be talking about today.
Again, if you have an opportunity to see
or look at the slides from those
previous two sessions or say one
of the Cocoa binding sessions,
you'll see some interesting new
palettes that have been created.
and as well as look on your disk.
So, Jon was going to introduce me,
but I'm Chuck Fleming,
new manager of the IB team.
And again,
what we want to talk about today is
Interface Builder and how to extend it,
make it more powerful,
and extend it by creating
your own palettes.
So you should, I guess,
first of all ask why would you want
to write an Interface Builder palette?
What does that do for you?
And first of all,
it gives you a very convenient
way to get your objects in
the hands of your developers.
[Transcript missing]
And the third reason,
if you've gone to any of
the Cocoa Bindings sessions,
you know Cocoa Bindings
was introduced last year.
is very exciting technology that's
been displayed this year as well,
particular in the Quartz
Composer session this morning.
Terrific use of bindings was shown in the
setting of an Interface Builder palette.
So, third reason why you might want
to write a palette is to take full
advantage of Cocoa bindings for your
custom views within Interface Builder.
The only way really to expose
your bindings at this point
is to implement a palette.
So, very quickly,
topics we're hoping to cover.
Number one,
building and debugging palettes,
sort of getting things going quickly.
Step two, some additional palette tasks.
We're going to talk about
how to make things a little
bit more fully functional,
add some features that you would expect
to have your inspectors fully working,
maybe undo support, tool tips,
things like that.
The third and fourth topics,
a little bit miscellaneous
collection of topics here,
some tips,
not entirely related to palettes,
but they touch on topics that you
should know as you're writing palettes
or playing with nibs in general.
And then very quickly,
I'll just give some
performance suggestions.
Okay, so how do you make a palette?
You use the two tools that,
two of the tools Apple provides, Xcode.
We are going to provide you
with an enhanced template,
project template for,
specifically for making palettes.
It's significantly improved over
the one that's currently shipping.
That's in the disk image that
will be available for download
at the end of this session.
And then Interface Builder itself,
because you're going to assemble
the palette graphically and also
assemble the inspector graphically.
And that's what Interface
Builder is all about,
assembling UIs graphically.
So, the first thing, we're going to take
the very simplest case.
How many of you guys have
built a palette before?
Okay,
it's smattering but not overwhelming,
which is good, because even though
this is advanced topics,
I'm going to start with the real
basic stuff and it's very easy to do.
So hopefully I won't bore the
advanced users here too much.
[Transcript missing]
The template lives in Home, Library,
Application Support, Apple.
Developer Tools, Project Templates,
Standard Apple Plugins.
And here we have our
IB Palette WWDC 2004 demo.
So that's a long path,
but it's also the place where the
standard Xcode templates live.
So if you're familiar with that,
it's the same place except
starting in your home directory.
So I'd like to go ahead and introduce
you guys to the WWDC 2004 template for
building Interface Builder palettes.
So I'm going to go ahead and launch
Xcode and create a new project.
Now, since we have that template
living in that folder,
we'll be able to see it here
in the standard Apple plugins.
So I'm going to select the IB palette,
WWDC 2004,
and create a new project named Widget.
So, our new project here on the screen
is going to include everything we
need to do to get started building
an Interface Builder palette.
The most important thing to notice
about the project is that it's
been divided into two targets.
We have a widget target
and a framework target.
The widget target is going to hold
our Interface Builder palette,
which is going to be everything we
need to configure our object that we're
exposing through interface graphically,
while the widget framework is
everything that an application needs
to consume the widget at runtime.
So let's go ahead and take a look
first at the widget framework.
I'm going to go ahead and expose
the target membership here
so we can see exactly which
files belong to which groups.
So in our framework folder is
all the files that by default
belong to the widget framework.
And here we have a view object.
Subclasses from NSView.
So we're going to use this to
provide a new view to users.
And also, in our palette folder,
we have two interesting classes of note.
We have an inspector that we're
going to use to configure the view
graphically and a palette that's going
to hold the view so that users can
drag and drop it into their projects.
So with this, I'd like to give it back to
Chuck to continue the presentation.
Okay, can we get the slides again?
Okay, so very quickly,
what was generated for us?
Three classes.
The Widget class,
which is the view that's going
to appear on your palette.
The Inspector,
which is going to be the files
owner for the Inspector nib file.
And the Palette,
which is sort of a controller object,
it's also the files owner for the
Palette nib that got created for us.
We'll look at those
in detail in a second.
So again, Widget,
that's the view object that's
going to go on the Palette,
and by default it's a subclass of NSView.
When we switch over to looking at
non-view based Palette objects,
you're going to have to change
that yourself to make it
whatever class you want it to be.
In Widget.m, again,
that's the view that you're
going to put on your Palette.
It has, the template creates a skeleton
implementation of three methods for you
that you do need to fully implement.
Anit with Frame, Anit with Coder,
and Encode with Coder.
Anit with Frame,
you need because that gets
called when your view first
appears on the Palette in IB.
And that gets loaded lazily,
so it doesn't happen automatically.
It will happen, say, for example,
the first time you click on the
tab that represents your Palette
in the Palette's window in IB.
Anit with Frame will get called,
so any initialization you'll do there.
The Anit with Coder and Encode
with Coder are needed because
they're called when your view
first appears on the Palette in IB.
So any initialization you'll do there.
The Anit with Coder and Encode
with Coder are needed because
they're called when your view
first appears on the Palette in IB.
So any initialization you'll do there.
needed because, for example,
when you drag your widget off the pallet,
nib, into your design window,
we're going to archive that object
and put it on the paste board,
so encode with coder
will get called there,
and then we drop it in the design window,
it'll get unarchived and so a
nit with coder will get called.
And finally, for example,
when you save your nib file
with the new object in it,
that object will get freeze-dried
again and unarchived and so
encode with coder will get called.
So you need to implement
those three methods.
And again, since this is an advanced
-- more advanced session,
I'm assuming you guys know about
coding and some of the standard
AppKit and foundation techniques.
What else was created?
The widget palette.
That's a subclass of IB palette.
And basically the most important,
the take-home point on this one
is it should be the files owner
of the widget palette dot nib.
In there again, skeleton implementations
of a couple of methods.
Finish Instantiate.
This guy is primarily used when
you have the non-view case,
when you have an object that
you're going to put on the palette,
which isn't a subclass of NSView,
but you need to associate a
visual proxy for that object.
So that you can
graphically manipulate it,
even though it's not a view.
Normally you do that association
in Finish Instantiate,
and we'll show you the teeny bit of
code you need to make that happen.
And then also the Inspector class name,
by default a reasonable
choice is given there.
If that isn't what you need,
then you can certainly modify that.
The Inspector class is created for you.
That's a subclass of IB Inspector.
It's the attributes
inspector for your widget.
And... And again, it should be the files
owner of the inspector nib.
Okay, again,
here's the stub implementations
that are created for you.
Anit, OK and Revert.
Anit is probably where you
want to load the bundle that
contains your inspector nib file.
OK and Revert mirror each other.
Revert is going to be called by
IB and give you the opportunity to
pull information from the inspected
object and insert it into the UI,
your inspector.
And OK does the opposite.
When you trigger the OK action,
you'll be responsible for pulling
information out of the UI and
pushing it into the object
that you're being inspected.
So these guys are trying
to keep things in sync,
and so in the back of your heads you
should be thinking Cocoa bindings.
So this is the old style.
It works fine.
Think in terms of Cocoa bindings
as you go forward,
because this is a synchronization issue,
basically.
Let's see, what else?
A couple of nibs.
Jon's going to show us
those in just a second.
Basically,
the palette is where you assemble
what's going to appear in I.V.
in its palette window.
Files owner,
you're going to have to change that,
because we couldn't do that
for you in the template.
and the Inspector Nib itself,
that's where you're going to assemble
the widgets that will get extracted
and then put in the Inspector as
Interface Builder is running.
And again, the Files Owner,
I'll mention this several times,
Files Owner needs to
be set appropriately.
Alright, so Jon,
I think you were going to just give
us a quick look at those nib files.
Okay, so let's go ahead and try
to make this sample project
runnable with Interface Builder.
And the first thing we're going
to do is we're going to fix those
files owners like Chuck mentioned.
So I'm going to open up two of the
files that I'm going to show you now,
which are the widget palette
nib in Interface Builder,
and next we'll do the widget inspector.
So in the widget palette,
you'll see we have the
files owner in one window.
It's very important that the
files owner has its custom class
set to be a widget palette.
Also,
the files owner needs to be connected
to this palette view right here.
And we can see it's connected.
This palette view is what's going
to be loaded into the Interface
Builder palette section over here,
and we'll be modifying that later.
Let's also open up the
Widget Inspector and make
sure that its files owner
is set to be an instance
of Widget Inspector.
Also,
we need to make sure that the files owner
is bound to the Widget Inspectors window.
So now we have our nib set up,
and we'll be ready to move on shortly.
Back to the slides.
Okay,
so that's sort of the minimal setup.
And now we just wanted to add a tiny
bit of code so you can see that,
well, we have a functioning
palette at this point.
So Jon's going to do a real
quick modification to the code,
build it, load the palette,
and see that it really
is sort of functional.
So back to the demo.
Okay, so we have our palette here,
and on our palette we'd
like to place a widget view.
So what we're going to do to do
this is put in an NSCustomView,
and we're going to change the custom
views custom class to be a widget.
Now, at this point we have everything
that's needed to get a widget
loaded into Interface Builder,
but unfortunately our
widget doesn't paint itself,
so we wouldn't be able to see it.
So we're going to modify
the widget skeleton that was
generated for us by the template,
and we're going to
include a drawRect method.
So in the drawRect method,
we just want to make it visible for now,
so I'm going to go ahead and choose
the blue color and go ahead and
fill our clip rectangle with blue.
Now from here we can build a project.
And we want to go ahead and make sure it
gets installed in the correct location.
So I'm going to go to our home folder,
move to Libraries, Frameworks,
Framework.
Going to Framework.
Frameworks.
And here's our widget framework.
And then also we go to Palettes,
we'll see that we have
our widget palette.
So let's go ahead and go back to
Interface Builder and let's go ahead
and load up our widget palette.
So in Interface Builder's preferences,
its last tab is the Palette tab.
We can choose to include
our palette here.
Here's our widget palette.
I'm going to select it and it's going
to load up in Interface Builder.
At this point, we can create a new
and Nick Nib,
and our widget is fully functional
and ready to be drag and
dropped into new applications.
So that's all we have to do
to get a view onto a palette.
and also the inspector,
it looks like you do Command-1?
So we can see in the inspector that
Interface Builder is aware that this
inspector is inspecting a widget object,
and if we were to have
edited our inspector nib,
the properties would appear there.
Okay, so I want to kind of move
on to the non-view case,
which is really not much
different from the view case,
just a slight modification.
But before leaving the view example,
I wanted to point out that on
the shipping Panther and I'm
not sure if it was earlier,
but certainly Panther and Tiger,
if you look at on your hard disk in
/developer/examples/interfacebuilder,
you'll find a nice fully featured sample
project called Progress View Palette
that illustrates in some more
detail the process of getting
a view-based object on a palette.
Okay, so again, heading toward the
non-view-based object case.
Before I get to there,
what I want to do is just mention
something that's probably obvious,
but
When you assemble an application and
you're bringing things off the palette,
say your palette objects into
the application and building it,
designing it,
and then you save and build.
At runtime, of course,
your application needs to have access
to the code for those palette objects.
So clearly one way to do that would
be you've got the source code,
the .m and .h for your custom views.
You could distribute those,
but that would get pretty tedious.
Probably a better approach is to make
sure that the classes for objects on your
palette and associated objects that may
be needed are wrapped up in a library,
or sorry, a framework.
And so one of the things our new palette
does is it makes that job easy for you.
It's certainly customizable,
but it will create the framework for you
and install it in convenient location,
as well as the same for the palette.
As Jon showed.
So what we do with the framework
is it will end up installed
in Tilda Library frameworks,
and the palette gets installed
in Tilda Library palettes.
Okay,
so back to getting an object on a palette
where that object may not be a view-based
object or a subclass of NSView.
So it requires a small change to the
nibs and some small code modifications.
So the template's going
to make that easy.
Jon's going to show us again
in detail some of these things.
But what the palette project does for us,
the new project,
is it sets up three different targets,
one for the framework,
one for the palette,
and an aggregate target.
It sets up several new groups to
organize your code in a reasonable way.
Establishes build dependencies for you,
exposes the headers that you might need.
It creates some files to support undo,
implements the-- or gives you a palette
table in which you can store some
other information like tool tips,
things like that.
[Transcript missing]
requires the framework to build.
This way, the random number generator
only lives in one library,
and Interface Builder is going to
need both the palette and the actual
random number generator in order
to include those in your project,
whereas application developers
will only need your framework to
use your random number generator.
So you want to show the command?
So we show that...
We can see those dependencies here
by looking at one of our targets.
and the Inspector.
And we can see that the random
number palette requires the
random number framework.
I also showed the dependencies on
which files belong to which target,
if you would.
Okay, sure.
So in the framework is all the,
like I said, all the files that belong
to the framework which
applications are going to need.
We can see these two
files belong to that.
And if we look at the
Interface Builder palette,
we'll see that all the rest of the files
belong to the Interface Builder palette
because Interface Builder will need this
code and these nibs in order to edit
the object graphically in its runtime.
And also, if you could disclose
the undo support as well.
So we also provide-- Sorry, go ahead.
So when an object is being
edited in Interface Builder,
we're going to take snapshots of
that object when you tell us to,
when we know that your inspector
is about to edit the object.
And these IB class description files
expose the properties of the object that
you want to have snapshotted at runtime.
So for example,
for a random number generator,
we're going to take a
snapshot of the min value,
the max value,
and the frequency attributes,
which are the instance variables
of the random number generator.
And so when the user presses undo,
we'll be able to swap back the
old values and swap in as the user
modifies things and presses undo.
So these classes are key to implementing
undo support in Interface Builder.
Back to the slides, please.
Okay, so as we mentioned earlier,
you've got a non-view based object
like a random number generator.
You want it on the palette.
You need to graphically manipulate it,
so you need to assign a proxy view to it.
Very simple process.
You're going to instantiate the object,
and then you're going to
associate a view with that object.
So Jon's going to quickly show
us where we do that in the code.
So it's interesting to think of how we
can put a non-view-based object into
an Interface Builder or a palette,
since a palette contains view objects.
So we go ahead and look at
our random number palette,
which I'm opening Interface Builder now.
We see that we have this R here
representing a random number generator.
This is what we want the user to
see in the Interface Builder palette
when they're using our palette
that we're generating for them.
However, if we inspect this,
we'll see this in NSImageView,
not a random number generator.
So what's going on behind
the scenes is in our palette
class's FinishExtantiate method,
we're telling our base class
to associate a random number
object with that image view.
So our base class,
which is the IB palette,
is going to know that when the
user drags one of these images,
that when he deposits the
image onto his object browser,
he really means to deposit a
random number generator and not the
NSImageView that he initially dragged.
So that's how we're able to put
non-view-based objects into palettes and
have the IB runtime manage that for us.
Okay, so before going any farther,
there is a very nice example, again,
that shipped with Panther,
available on Tiger,
that you might want to take
a look at that shows you,
in addition to the tips and
tricks we'll show you today,
some additional features that
we won't have time to get into.
For example, supporting drag and
drop onto your objects.
That, in fact,
gives you a nice example where
you might need something done
before the Instantiate object,
which is where we just did
that mapping between the view
object and the non-view object,
or the view proxy and
the non-view object.
Sometimes you need to do stuff
before finish Instantiate,
and one of the things is
for drag-and-drop support.
So you'll implement your init
method and do that there.
A place to look for some
other very good tips is
/developer/examples/interface-builder
and look at the Busy Palette example.
Okay, so at this point we have the bare
minimal functionality and we want to
go on then and show what's involved in
making your inspector fully functional.
I'm sure you have a pretty good
idea of what we need to do.
Supporting undo and redo,
which hopefully Jon's given us an
indication that that's pretty trivial.
And then what about working
with Cocoa bindings?
Okay, so we've already seen putting
an object onto a palette twice.
Now let's go ahead and take a look
and see how the inspectors work.
I'm going to go ahead and open the
inspector nib that was generated
for us and we had modified.
and in the inspector you'll see
that we have properties reflecting
what was in the undo support.
We have a text field for setting the
maximum and minimum value along with the
frequency of a random number generator.
We'll see that each of these has an
action that's bound to the file's owner.
[Transcript missing]
and I will be talking about the previous
project and make sure that it gets
installed in the correct location.
Quickly we can note while it's building
that in the random number inspector,
In the OK and revert methods,
where we're pushing the properties
from the view to the object and
from the object to the view,
we can see that in the OK method,
we're telling Interface Builder
that the object will change.
This is the point when Interface
Builder is going to use that IB class
description that you generated to take a
snapshot of your object for unarchiving
in the future to implement undo.
So now that our project's built,
let's go make sure it's
in the correct location,
which again is in your
library frameworks folder.
There's our random number generator.
And let's also make sure
we've got the palette.
And our palette.
So back in Interface Builder,
we can go to the Preferences.
We can choose Palettes.
We can press Add and select
our random number palette.
So in the Random Number Palette,
let's go ahead and actually utilize this.
In Xcode,
I'm going to create a new project.
We'll make a sample.
We'll use the Cocoa template
for an application.
Let's call it RandomHarness.
So, since our Random Harness is going to
want to use our Random Number Generator,
we need to import the framework that we
generated with the Random Number Project.
So we're going to add
that to our project.
[Transcript missing]
We're going to grab
Random Number Framework because
we're going to depend on that.
And let's go ahead and put a random
number generator into our nib file.
So in our resources,
we're going to go to the main menu nib.
Okay, let's just start that back up.
So in our main menu, oh,
we gotta grab the, uh,
the random number generator again.
So here we go.
And in our nib that we just generated,
we're going to grab one
of these random numbers.
And like we said,
we associated a random number
generator with this NSImageView.
And when we drop it, we're going to get a
random number generator.
So to utilize this,
let's go ahead and put some
graphical elements on our window
to expose what's going on with
the random number generator.
I'm going to put a text
field here and two buttons.
Let's put a Start button
and a Stop button.
and let's go ahead and configure
our random number generator with the
inspector that was shown earlier.
So we'll say it will have a
min value between 0 and 100 and
let's go ahead and make it fast.
So we'll set the frequency to 0.2.
So if we set the stop button's action to
be stop on the random number generator
and do the equivalent for start,
And we're going to go ahead and use
Cocoa Bindings to tell the text field
to bind to the value that's exported
by the random number generator.
So tell the text field to get its value.
Now it looks like we have a bug.
Yeah, we should be able to see
random number generator here
and choose random number here.
Are we running Tiger?
I don't think so, no.
That's probably our problem.
That is our problem.
So-- So the latest release
of Interface Builder,
you can choose other objects
besides NSControllers to
bound to for Cocoa bindings.
So when you go ahead and use
your latest copy of Tiger that
you were provided with,
you'll be able to bind
to this random number,
this random number ibar for
your text field to display
the values automatically.
But with the older version,
we're not allowed to do that.
So that's, yeah,
should have been kind of surprising
that there's no object controller here.
So we've added preliminary support so
that you can bind directly to model
objects and not just controllers.
So unfortunately, though,
it looks like we're running
a version of Panther here.
So, okay.
Let's go back to the slides.
Okay, so what did we just do?
Well, we really didn't do anything.
We had this all pre-canned.
But basically the steps
that you would need to do,
as Jon pointed out,
you've got the inspector,
you're going to drag some text
fields or graphical widgets in there.
You'll take the inspector,
which is the files owner,
and hook up and set up outlets
to point to those widgets,
so that when the revert
method gets called,
I should say when the
revert message gets sent,
otherwise Jon will scold me.
So when that message gets sent,
the revert message,
that we can get to those objects in the
inspector and pull the values out and
insert them into the inspected object.
And then you also want
to set up your actions,
your OK actions, so that when, say,
you do something in the inspector,
you trigger an action,
which will then get sent
to your inspector object.
And the result is your inspector
object then wants to take the
values from the UI and push
those into the inspected object.
And that's basically
what you'll need to do.
OK, undo support.
It's very easy.
You make a slight change
to your OK method and
Add an IB class description file.
Now, the template that we provided
has done that for you.
In fact,
Jon actually showed us this as he was
looking at the inspector implementation.
But the highlighted text shows
you how basically to support undo.
You'll want to call that second line
or have that second line implemented
for every object that happens to get
changed when you're doing the inspection.
And then the class description file,
again,
you just list the instance variables,
the names of the instance variables
that you want to participate in undo.
If you have a class that has a bunch
of IVARs and only a small subset,
then obviously you want to-- a little
performance enhancement is just to
list the ones that need to participate.
Inspectors and Cocoa Bindings.
So as I mentioned earlier,
we've got this OK and revert method
thing going on that keep things in sync.
And that's precisely what
Cocoa Bindings is good at doing for
you without writing those methods,
implementing those methods.
So it works very well on Tiger.
Non-view based objects.
Interface Builder has been
around for a long time.
It's much earlier than Cocoa bindings.
So that means there are some
possible edge cases when you're
working with view based objects.
In particular,
we do some caching of the images
that might make you work a little
bit harder to get things to refresh
when you implement undo and redo.
But basically it should work.
There might be a few edge cases,
so you might have to
do a little tweaking.
So I think, Jon, you were just going to
show us the example,
what's involved,
what's left in your project
after you use the Cocoa Bindings
approach for an inspector.
So, like Chuck said,
bindings are a great thing to use
in inspectors because all you have
is a bunch of get set mappings,
keeping the objects in sync.
So here,
instead of having an OK and revert method
in this slightly different instance of
the random number generator project,
instead we just have set value.
We're overwriting the key value
coding for our class to push the
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so normally you see the people bring
up the project with the file merge,
so you know.
The okay and revert methods are now gone.
There were no instance variables left,
and you're down to a
minimal amount of code.
Okay, back to slides.
Okay, just a few additional details.
Where does IB look for palettes?
Where should you put the palettes?
It looks in a bunch of places,
but the places we recommend:
Tilda Library Palettes,
Tilda Developer Palettes.
Classes that you want to expose,
you know, the main class that you've
put on the palette plus
maybe some auxiliary classes,
make sure those are mentioned
in the palette table file.
Tool tips:
When you're in the palette window
in IB itself and you're mousing
over objects in your palette,
you can specify tool tips.
You do that also in your palette table.
One thing I didn't mention on the
slide is the image that represents your
objects on the palette that you click on.
You can specify that in
the palette.table file.
Okay, very quickly I just want to
mention a couple approaches
to debugging your palettes.
And then a couple of topics that may be
useful while you're debugging palettes,
but also may be useful in general.
to let you modify how things
look depending on whether you're
running in IB or whether or not
you're running in IB's test mode.
So, first of all, debugging.
Well, if you're from the old Unix world,
then your old friends, you know,
Terminal, Emacs, GDB still work great.
Okay, so that's always a fallback.
But if you want to do it the Xcode way,
Xcode now provides a very nice
way to debug your palettes.
You've got your palette
project you're working in.
I, sorry,
Xcode has a facility for assigning
a custom executable to your project.
And basically the custom executable
you want is Interface Builder.
So when you launch the application,
your custom application,
it'll be Interface Builder.
You're in your palette project,
you set breakpoints in the appropriate
places or reasonable places,
for example,
in your inspector class name,
finish instantiate, okay, revert.
Any, any,
any reasonable places you want to see.
Is this code being executed or not?
If something's going wrong, why?
Then simply start GDB in Xcode.
Your, and, and load the palette.
So that gives you a nice
graphical environment in which
to actually debug your palettes.
Okay, the other two questions:
Can you determine if you're
actually running in IB or not?
Well, you can just basically ask,
does your widget class, for example,
respond as selector is
in Interface Builder?
IB defines that in a
category on NSObject,
so you can simply see if,
and the implementation
is highlighted here.
So you can just test,
do your respond to that.
If you're in Interface Builder,
but maybe you want to know whether
you're in test mode or not,
maybe you want to do some
drawing differently so you
can see what state you're in,
you can simply ask NSApplication,
"Are you in test interface mode?"
That's a method that's made available
through IB Application Editions,
which is a public header.
Okay, so I'm going to switch gears just
a little bit now and talk about
some things that are perhaps not
entirely related to palettes,
but good things to know.
They do help you if you understand,
so in your understanding
of how palettes work,
good things to keep in mind,
but also for nib loading in general.
And some of these,
we see a lot of questions
on the mailing list,
especially from beginning
palette programmers,
about what methods get called,
messages get sent, and when.
In particular, init or initWithFrame,
depending whether you're
a view or non-view object,
awakeFromNib, initWithCoder, and so on.
So,
the first case is you've just clicked on
your palette in the palette window in IB.
What happens first?
Well, that's where your
NetWithFrame will get called,
on your View class.
Let's take the example again.
This is a view-based object.
So a knit with frame gets called there.
Then the next thing,
you drag that view into
your design window.
Again, it gets archived when it
gets put on the pasteboard,
and when you drop it, it gets unarchived.
So a knit with coder gets called first,
and then-- or sorry,
encode with coder when we archive it,
and then a knit with
coder when we drop it.
Then you save the nib.
And then in your running
application that nib gets loaded.
So what happens when the nib gets
loaded this freeze-dried object,
this freeze-dried view that you had
in your nib file gets unarchived.
So a knit with coder gets called.
Some folks expect, oh this is a view,
my knit with frame will get called.
But no, it's the knit with coder that
gets called because again,
it's a freeze-dry,
we're thawing this object
when the application runs.
So this slide just basically summarizes
what we saw in the previous slides.
So, init with coder.
The second slide, I think,
is a little bit more important.
The init with coder is
going to get called,
not your init with frame.
And then, of course, after that,
awake from nib will get called.
A couple of caveats to keep in mind.
You can't count on your
connections having been
formed in the init with coder.
You have to wait until awake
from nib to make sure all
your connections are formed.
So, again, this was a case of a view.
In the case of a non-view
object on the palette,
instead of... Basically,
everything is the same except
init with frame gets called... Or,
sorry, init gets called instead
of init with frame.
And it's important to note,
if your non-view object has an
initializer other than init,
that's not going to get called.
So, this only works well if your view,
init with frame, or if your non-view,
it needs an init to
work in an IB palette.
Here's another case.
Suppose this time you take a custom view,
which is on one of the
system provided palettes,
and you drop that into
your design window.
But you want to make that
view a special subclass,
some subclass that you've provided.
Either you've dragged in a header,
or you pick another subclass of
view that's available in IB itself.
So you have a new view
here now called My View.
So what happens when that gets saved?
Well, the custom view is the thing
that actually gets encoded.
And it keeps track of the fact that, "Oh,
by the way,
I really wanted my subclass of view to
be used at runtime." So the next step,
say at runtime when that nib gets loaded,
the custom view is the
thing that gets unarchived.
and then it realizes, oh,
we really didn't want a custom,
we didn't really want the custom view,
we wanted that subclass of view.
So, basically the custom view kills
itself off and allows for your
subclass of view to get created.
So in this case,
a knit with frame does get called.
Your subclass didn't get unarchived.
It actually got created the normal way.
So in this case,
a knit with frame gets called.
and then that previous slide was just
a summary of what we saw on screen.
Let me skip that for
save us some time here.
The final and probably the most
confusing case that we run into is
suppose you drag off a system view,
not a custom view, not a palette,
but some sort of system
view from IB palettes.
A typical case might be an NS button.
Even more typical,
a lot of people take OpenGL view,
which we provide on the palette,
and you drag that off
into your design window.
And then you want to
change what class it is.
So instead of say NS button,
you've got your subclass of button,
and so you use the classes tab
in IB or the class inspector
and you switch what class it is.
So again, you might have a subclass of
Button or a subclass of OpenGL View.
So again,
there's two ways you can come up
with a subclass of OpenGL View.
You could bring a custom
view in and change it,
or you could bring in an
OpenGL View in and then change it.
So we're in the second case
where we've taken a system view
and we're changing its class.
What happens in that case?
Well, this is a little bit strange,
but what happens is the NSButton,
in this case, gets archived.
So its encodeWithCoder gets called.
When we save the nib,
and then when the nib
gets loaded at runtime,
Well, something gets unarchived.
In fact, the initWithCoder to your
subclass gets called,
even though what got
encoded was the NS button.
So you have to be careful.
If you do implement some encode
with coder on your subclass,
that's not going to get called.
And furthermore,
you probably shouldn't be pulling out,
especially for TypeStream,
the old TypeStream version of archiving,
you don't want to be pulling
things out of the stream,
assuming that those are things that
you put in there for your subclass,
because it's actually the
superclass that got encoded.
So the behavior is a
little bit strange there.
Because of that strangeness,
you should be asking, "Well,
why would you ever want to do that?
Why would you want to bring in a button
and then change its class?" Well,
one answer is, say,
a button or some widget that's a system
provided may have a lot of attributes
and state that needs to be set,
and that state can easily be set
in the inspector for that object.
So you can take advantage of setting up
all of that state by using the inspector.
that you inherit.
Alright, so it looks like we're in
pretty good shape for time.
The final topics that I want
to talk about basically are
related to performance and some
tips on designing your NIBs.
So, for example,
one way to get some nice performance
in certain cases is to use NSNIB,
which is reasonably new.
If you use NSNIB,
you can get enhanced speed improvements
at possibly a cost of memory.
You get to load the Nib
from the disk just one time.
And then once it's in memory,
you can instantiate it as
often as you want very quickly.
And again,
the tradeoff is between loading
speed and the memory footprint.
If you use NSNIB,
you can get enhanced speed improvements
at possibly a cost of memory.
You get to load the Nib
from the disk just one time.
And then once it's in memory,
you can instantiate it as
often as you want very quickly.
And again,
the tradeoff is between loading
speed and the memory footprint.
Which basically,
if I haven't already allocated the NSNIB,
I'm going to go ahead and
call alloc init with nib name:
bundle:
That's going to load it from the disk,
but it doesn't instantiate.
The objects are not created,
they're not in memory.
And then, the next line is how you
actually instantiate the nib.
And then the final line is say the
nib had some window in it so you
could do make key-and-order front,
so you see it come on screen.
So a possible use for something
like this is say iChat,
where you have incoming requests
from people to start a conversation.
You might want to get those chat
windows up as fast as possible.
You might not want to hit the disk.
Something like that.
A couple of pointers to some
documentation on loading resources.
Okay, for some more details.
Some nib content strategies
that are related to this.
Nibs are fairly cheap.
If you load them into memory,
you can get them on screen fast.
If you load them from disk,
as long as they're not too heavyweight,
that shouldn't be a problem.
But remember that every object in
your nib is going to get instantiated.
So, excuse me, so they're cheap as
long as they're skinny.
Don't, try not to put a bunch of
Windows in your Nib files.
Don't put a lot of objects that
perhaps could be lazily loaded,
stored in other Nibs and loaded,
or other bundles and loaded when needed.
Okay, and the other thing when you're
finished with a nib file,
make sure you free the top level objects.
Okay,
and again some more details on where
you can get information on those topics.
Slides will be available.